# PIC-16A-Final-Project

This was a final project done in a Python class by Sanjay Verma and Tecia Yang in order to classify different Penguin Species by certain measurements scientists of them.

Support Vector Machines and Multinomial Logistic Regression were used as the two main Machine Learning Models.

The Support Vector Classification (SVC) model had a prediction accuracy of 0.985 on the testing datset. The Multinomial Linear Regression (MLR) model had a prediction accuracy of 0.969. Both performed relatively well.

In the decision regions plots, the visualized decision boundaries demonstrate that the SVC model has a more complex (non-linear) classification boundary than the linear ones of the MLR, which accomodates the clustered-shape data regions better. This is also reflected by the higher prediction accuracy of the SVC model. Therefore, at least between the two models discussed here, the SVC model would be expected to perform better on the penguin dataset. However, it should be noted that the SVC model seems to assume one class as the main decision/background (as seen in the decision regions), so there is still room for refinement. 
Preliminary data visualization and selection in the explanatory analysis and further narrowing down using cross-validation in feature selection showed that a highly predictive set of three features of the penguin dataset is 'Island', 'Culmen Depth', and 'Culmen Length'. 
More data samples (penguin individuals) would benefit hyperparameter selection and model training. Specifically, the feature clusters of each species would be more defined and concentrated, balancing the effect of outliers. Figure 2 of the explanatory analysis also showed that within the penguin dataset, the only species-indicative qualitative/categorical variable is 'Island'. If more qualitative measurements were taken, such as diet and habitat location, they might provide as other species-indicative categorical features. In feature selection, another pair of relatively well-defined quantitative measurement pair might be chosen in combination if a new good qualitative feature is used. To some degree, the chosen pair 'Culmen Depth' and 'Culmen Length' for the models here might only work well with the selected qualitative feature 'Island'. The other pairs are not necessarily less indicative of species- it depends on the model and/or qualitative feature used.
